README.md, before:

# Deployment on Scalingo

Somes changes have been made in the code to inject more easily some environment variables by scalingo secrets. Instead of putting credentials.env file in the repository which is not a proper way.

- **MONGO_CERTIFICATE_BASE64** : Base64-encoded CA given by the scalingo add-on. The raw CA was download in the mongodb dashboard in scalingo then converted in base64.

- **MONGO_DB_NAME** : Name of the database we want to interact

- **MONGO_URL** : URL of the mongo database which is an alias of SCALINGO_MONGO_URL

- **SCALINGO_MONGO_URL** : URL set by scalingo when mongo was created

![env](images/scalingo/env.png)

The application now is connected to the mongo database, so I we deploy again data are not lost.

![mytodo](images/scalingo/mytodo.png)

# Introduction

This web app built with a CLEAN stack (CLoudant NoSQL DB, Express, Angular and Node.js) is ready to be deployed on ICP (IBM Cloud Platform).

![Todo](./images/screenshot.png)


Watch this 6 mins <a href="https://youtu.be/XVVb-aLw9ow" target=”_blank”>YouTube video</a> to understand all the deployment steps below. Note: this video excludes the cluster provisioning.


# How to deploy this app in Kubernetes?

1. If you don't already have a Kubernetes cluster, create one for **Free** from IBM Cloud Catalog by selecting the [Kubernetes Service](https://cloud.ibm.com/kubernetes/catalog/create).

    Give it a **Name** and select a **Resource Group**.
    > 20 min provisioning time

    ![Cluster](./images/iks-free-cluster.jpg)

1. [Optional] If you want to securely store your API Key used in the Continuous Delivery later, provision a service [Key Protect](https://cloud.ibm.com/catalog/services/key-protect).

    Make sure to select the same **Region** as your cluster location, enter a **Service Name**, select a **Resource Group** and a **Network Policy**.
    > 2 min provisioning time

    ![Key Protect](./images/key-protect.jpg)

1. To automate the deployment of this app into your Kubernetes cluster, click the button below.

    <a href="https://cloud.ibm.com/devops/setup/deploy?repository=https://github.com/lionelmace/mytodo&branch=master" target=”_blank”>![](./images/toolchain0-button.png)</a>


1. Enter a **Toolchain Name**, select the **Region** and a **Resource Group** where your cluster was created.

    ![Toolchain](./images/toolchain1-create.jpg)

1. In the tab **Git Repos and Issue Tracking**, keep the default setting .

    ![Toolchain](./images/toolchain2-git.jpg)

1. In the tab **Delivery Pipeline**, create a new API Key.

    ![Toolchain](./images/toolchain3-newkey.jpg)

1. A panel will open, check the option **Save this key in a secrets store for resuse** if you have created an instance of the service Key Protect.
    > Keep this option unchecked if you have decided not to use Key Protect.

    ![Toolchain](./images/toolchain4-secretkey.jpg)


1. The toolchain will automatically try to fill out the remaining information. Control the Resource Group, the region and the cluster name, then, click **Create**. 

    ![Toolchain](./images/toolchain5-final.jpg)

1. The toolchain is being created. That includes a Github repo to clone the source code of the app. 

    ![Toolchain](./images/toolchain6-overview.jpg)

1. Click **Delivery Pipeline** in the Overview. You will see the stages progressing in pipeline.

    > 6 min deployment time 
    ![Toolchain](./images/toolchain7-pipeline.jpg)

1. Click the link **View logs and history** in the last stage **DEPLOY**. Scroll down to the bottom. You will find the link to your application.

    ![Toolchain](./images/toolchain8-applink.jpg)

    > If you have a free cluster, the url will be using the IP address of a worker node.
    > If you have a paid cluster, the url will be a domain name finishing with *.appdomain.cloud.

Congratulations! Your app is up and running in the cluster.


# Step by step Deployment

Those two tutorials will show you in details how to deploy this step by step:

* With IKS (IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service), follow this [tutorial](https://lionelmace.github.io/iks-lab)

* With ICF (IBM Cloud Foundry), follow this [tutorial](https://github.com/lionelmace/ibmcloud-labs/tree/master/labs/Lab%20Cloud%20Foundry%20-%20Deploy%20TODO%20web%20application)

Commit message:

docs: add dashboard and logs screenshots

README.md, after:

# Deployment on Scalingo

Somes changes have been made in the code to inject more easily some environment variables by scalingo secrets. Instead of putting credentials.env file in the repository which is not a proper way.

- **MONGO_CERTIFICATE_BASE64** : Base64-encoded CA given by the scalingo add-on. The raw CA was download in the mongodb dashboard in scalingo then converted in base64.

- **MONGO_DB_NAME** : Name of the database we want to interact

- **MONGO_URL** : URL of the mongo database which is an alias of SCALINGO_MONGO_URL

- **SCALINGO_MONGO_URL** : URL set by scalingo when mongo was created

![env](images/scalingo/env.png)

The application now is connected to the mongo database, so I we deploy again data are not lost.

![mytodo](images/scalingo/mytodo.png)

Some log requests to create and list all todos

![logs](images/scalingo/logs.png)

Scalingo dashboard of mytodo

![dashboard](images/scalingo/dashboard.png)

# Introduction

This web app built with a CLEAN stack (CLoudant NoSQL DB, Express, Angular and Node.js) is ready to be deployed on ICP (IBM Cloud Platform).

![Todo](./images/screenshot.png)


Watch this 6 mins <a href="https://youtu.be/XVVb-aLw9ow" target=”_blank”>YouTube video</a> to understand all the deployment steps below. Note: this video excludes the cluster provisioning.


# How to deploy this app in Kubernetes?

1. If you don't already have a Kubernetes cluster, create one for **Free** from IBM Cloud Catalog by selecting the [Kubernetes Service](https://cloud.ibm.com/kubernetes/catalog/create).

    Give it a **Name** and select a **Resource Group**.
    > 20 min provisioning time

    ![Cluster](./images/iks-free-cluster.jpg)

1. [Optional] If you want to securely store your API Key used in the Continuous Delivery later, provision a service [Key Protect](https://cloud.ibm.com/catalog/services/key-protect).

    Make sure to select the same **Region** as your cluster location, enter a **Service Name**, select a **Resource Group** and a **Network Policy**.
    > 2 min provisioning time

    ![Key Protect](./images/key-protect.jpg)

1. To automate the deployment of this app into your Kubernetes cluster, click the button below.

    <a href="https://cloud.ibm.com/devops/setup/deploy?repository=https://github.com/lionelmace/mytodo&branch=master" target=”_blank”>![](./images/toolchain0-button.png)</a>


1. Enter a **Toolchain Name**, select the **Region** and a **Resource Group** where your cluster was created.

    ![Toolchain](./images/toolchain1-create.jpg)

1. In the tab **Git Repos and Issue Tracking**, keep the default setting .

    ![Toolchain](./images/toolchain2-git.jpg)

1. In the tab **Delivery Pipeline**, create a new API Key.

    ![Toolchain](./images/toolchain3-newkey.jpg)

1. A panel will open, check the option **Save this key in a secrets store for resuse** if you have created an instance of the service Key Protect.
    > Keep this option unchecked if you have decided not to use Key Protect.

    ![Toolchain](./images/toolchain4-secretkey.jpg)


1. The toolchain will automatically try to fill out the remaining information. Control the Resource Group, the region and the cluster name, then, click **Create**. 

    ![Toolchain](./images/toolchain5-final.jpg)

1. The toolchain is being created. That includes a Github repo to clone the source code of the app. 

    ![Toolchain](./images/toolchain6-overview.jpg)

1. Click **Delivery Pipeline** in the Overview. You will see the stages progressing in pipeline.

    > 6 min deployment time 
    ![Toolchain](./images/toolchain7-pipeline.jpg)

1. Click the link **View logs and history** in the last stage **DEPLOY**. Scroll down to the bottom. You will find the link to your application.

    ![Toolchain](./images/toolchain8-applink.jpg)

    > If you have a free cluster, the url will be using the IP address of a worker node.
    > If you have a paid cluster, the url will be a domain name finishing with *.appdomain.cloud.

Congratulations! Your app is up and running in the cluster.


# Step by step Deployment

Those two tutorials will show you in details how to deploy this step by step:

* With IKS (IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service), follow this [tutorial](https://lionelmace.github.io/iks-lab)

* With ICF (IBM Cloud Foundry), follow this [tutorial](https://github.com/lionelmace/ibmcloud-labs/tree/master/labs/Lab%20Cloud%20Foundry%20-%20Deploy%20TODO%20web%20application)
